What gets logged?
Is that 1 2 3 4, 2 4 3 1,
2 3 4 1, or 2 3 1 4?
All right, so
the right answer here is B, 2 4 3 1.
So again, we just have the Call Stack,
Web API, all the fun stuff.
So first, we call settimeout, and
its callback gets pushed to the Web API
first to eventually log (1).
Then we meet this async function body and
we immediately invoke it.
So because we immediately invoke it,
it gets added to the Call Stack.
Now the body of an async function is run
synchronously until it meets an await
keyword.
So here we're in the body and
we see console.log(2).
This just gets run so it logs(2).
Then it sees the await keyword, but
first, it resolves the promise.
Anytime we await something, it'll first
run that function that comes after.
So this runs Promise.resolve,
doesn't do anything else, and
then it sees the await keyword.
And when it does this, it schedules the
rest of the function body as a microtask.
So in this case that's
just console.log (3).
I mean, yeah, this is where's animated,
so this now gets pushed to the microtask
queue, and then it changes out of that
body or the function where it was before
back to the global scope because
this is now kind of suspended.
Now it calls promise.resolve and
this just resolves.
Calls then on that resolved promise,
that promise resolved returned,
and the callback from then gets
added to the microtask queue.
Now there's nothing in
the Call Stack anymore.
There's nothing to execute.
So it first goes back to the microtask
queue because those are prioritized.
And here, we have that console.log(3)
from that async function.
So now finally 3 gets logged, and
then we have another microtask.
And that's just a callback function for
promise resolve.
This runs, finishes, it calls the then
function on the resolve promise, and
this schedules its callback, which is
the console.log(4) to the microtask queue.
Then we have this microtask here again cuz
a microtask can schedule a microtask, fun.
So this callback is console.log,
it invokes console.log and then logs 4.
And then finally, we just have one
task left on the normal task queue,
which is console.log1, and 1 gets logged.
Wrong animation there.
[LAUGH] All right, makes sense?
So yeah, I guess the most important part
is that the async function body runs
synchronously until it meets
the await keyword, and
the rest of the function
body is run as a microtask